Model maintenance we've been leading up to this the Tauriel in the previous two where we talked about
how models deteriorate and why they deteriorate.
And today it's time to understand what we can do to prevent them from deteriorating or at least find
out that they're deteriorating on time to replace them and are going to cut straight to the chase here
.
This is the Prose's that I'm going to be talking about.
It's called the R process.
That is my own abbreviation a r r and we're going to go through every single one of these letters one
by one.
And the way this process works is it's a hierarchical process so first you do the first letter A.
If that works then you good.
If that fails and you move on to the next that are if that works then you're all sweet.
If that fails then you move on to the last step.
The last are.
So let's find out what they are a stands for assess.
This is by far the most important part of the model maintenance cycle.
You have to look at your models.
Periodically you have to assess them and see how they're going you can just leave them alone and hope
for the best or wait until they tell you that they're not working because that's not going to happen
.
You have to get take your morals and once in a while run a fresh sample through them.
And for one that you really know the outcome say take another take another thousand people randomly
selected from your bank or thousand toothbrushes sampled or a couple of thousand and see what happened
there.
Like we know the outcome we know whether or not those people left whether or not those toothbrushes
were faulty and run the door through your model and see what it would have predicted.
Create the cap curve check the rule of thumb see how much worse it is than the original model that you
created and determine for yourself.
Are you happy with that if you're or not if you're happy if that great your morals are doing fine.
Let it keep running.
If you're not you've got to move on to the next letter.
Next letter is our for retrain.
So this is the point where you're not happy with how your model is performing.
It's the cap curves flattening out and you're got to do something about it.
So retrain implies keeping the variables that you've read like.
So in retrain you don't have to do that whole process that we went through you don't have to throw bro
everything to throw take all the variables that you have in your company throw them at the models obviously
select select them logically but then still throw them at your model and then do the backward elimination
process and then find out the coefficients you don't have to do all of that you know we train you keep
the variables that you've already found out.
Like for instance we we decided we'll keep the dummy variable called Germany.
We'll keep the dummy variable for gender will we'll keep we'll even keep tenure but we'll exclude the
other things from our model.
And all you have to do is you're keeping the Marable's you just have to give them all a fresh sample
to train it on.
So what will change is the coefficients the coefficients of your logistic regression will change because
you've given your model a fresh sample.
Of course you'll have to have training data and test data just like we did.
And once you've used the training data then you check them out on the test data and if the cap curve
improves then from there you deploy the new model or the refreshed retrained bottled that's that's what
it's called retrain model.
You deploy the retrain model and maybe you monitor for it for a bit just a bit more frequently.
So instead of if you're monitoring a models once every six months this one you might check check up
on it in two months and then in two months again and then two months again because it is kind of on
probation it's it's a new thing.
You've retrained the model and but that might fix a situation that might be sufficient.
And that might happen when your variables are still explaining what's going on is just that the confessions
are not sufficient for instance let's say age is a important factor.
And also €10 important factor right.
But in our model age was way more important than tenure.
But let's say that over time things change and they're still both important just that tenure has become
a bit more important or much more important and now the coefficient for tenure has to be greater.
But your model hasn't had a chance to understand that you have to give it some fresh start to and train
on that and maybe it'll pick that up and it will start working well from there.
So if that's if that gives you a cap curve that you're satisfied with then.
Perfect.
Keep that model and continue going down that path.
But if that fails then you have to move on to the last R which is rebuild.
You have to rebuild your model from scratch and we're talking about everything completely scrap the
model that you have or if it's not doing that bad if this is like a preliminary phase and we'll talk
about this and say and then don't scrap completely but basically what you have to do is go all the way
back find the variables do this whole process again and get anymore.
Now speaking of this whole scrapping business sometimes if your models performing really poorly or it's
rubbish then of course you have to scrap it and build a new one.
But if you're doing this small maintenance process right then you'll pick up the fact that is deteriorating
on time you'll pick it up early and it's not the models are working too poorly yet it's still doing
a good job.
But you just want to see if you can do a better job with a new model.
So in that case once you build the second model you run them side by side.
And this is called a champion challenger setup where your existing model is a champion and your new
model is the challenger and you're running them side by side and you want to see which one performs
better over time.
And basically in real life situations and then you'll keep the one this corner and you can do this in
different ways you could run the champion challenger and only use the output of the champion or only
use the output of the challenger but just monitor them at the same time.
Or you could actually split your population in half and run half through the champion half through the
challenger.
It's up to you how you set this up but that is a good valid approach to make sure that if you are going
to replace a model that you are replacing you have something that's actually worse.
And that's basically how you do model maintenance.
Remember to do it on time.
It sounds like it sounds like a car maintenance right.
Don't forget the car maintenance but it is it is a fair point.
You should do your model maintenance on time you should share it.
Frequency depends on the industry depends on what exactly is your modeling.
It can it can vary it can be three months six months 12 months two years but I would actually that is
the frequency of when you need to update the models.
I would actually assess them at least every six months or so at least one six months you go ahead and
just quickly a system doesn't take that long and then maybe if things are changing quickly or you're
in a very fast paced environment at a business moment then then maybe a sister models once every three
months or so to frequence Also there's no point in that so assessing a model everydays differently to
different doesn't have a point.
But you will gauge over time what is the right frequency for your environment and for your specific
models.
Just don't forget to do it because it's really sad when somebody deploys a model and it deteriorates
over time and nobody picks it up on time to fix that or replace them all.
So there you go.
That's how you do model maintenance.
Nothing complicated just a three step process.
A-R are.
And that brings us to the end of the story so I hope you picked up something useful and hopefully this
will help you in your day to day role